It's time to talk about our third data structure.
And we're going to be talking about two types of link lists in the next coming videos, singly and doubly
linked lists.
What problem do we encounter with a race?
Well with static arrays, we only had a certain amount of data or memory that can be allocated next
to each other in memory.
But then both dynamic arrays and static arrays can increase their memory once it hits a certain limit
and double up that memory in another location.
But that operation every once in a while of doubling up the array in order to create more memory, had
a performance implication and it cost us o of n.
Additionally, arrays also had bad performance for any sort of operations like insert and delete that
had to shift indexes over, especially when you inserted or deleted anywhere.
That wasn't the end of the array.
And then came hash tables.
They were great.
We pretty much store things wherever we wanted and memory and hash tables would just take care of it
for us and know where to place it in memory.
We didn't have to worry about some problems that came with the race.
Life was good, but unfortunately they weren't really ordered.
So how can we solve this problem?
Link lists to the rescue.
So does this mean we all should just be using link lists all the time and disregard arrays and hash
tables because link lists are the best data structures?
Nope.
As always, there are trade offs when it comes to data structures.
So in the next coming videos, let's learn more about them so we can get a clearer picture.
By the way, remember this diagram that I showed you in the hash tables videos?
And I said that when we had a collision, one way to solve it was using something like this.
And we had no idea what this data structure was.
Well, this John Smith to Sandra D and this little arrow pointing, that's a linked list.
So let's get started and learn what link lists are.